br refactor: translate snapshot br (#11392)
pingcap/docs: br/br-snapshot-manual.md

---

> title: TiDB Snapshot Backup and restore Command-line Manual

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: TiDB Snapshot Backup and Restore Command Manual
```

summary: Learn about the commands of TiDB snapshot backup and restore.
---

> # TiDB Snapshot Backup and restore Command-line Manual

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# TiDB Snapshot Backup and Restore Command Manual
```

> This document describes the commands of TiDB snapshot backup and restore according to the backup and restore scenario, including:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document describes the commands of TiDB snapshot backup and restore according to the application scenarios, including:
```

- [Back up TiDB cluster snapshots](#back-up-tidb-cluster-snapshots)
- [Back up a database](#back-up-a-database)
- [Back up a table](#back-up-a-table)
- [Back up multiple tables with table filter](#back-up-multiple-tables-with-table-filter)
- [Encrypt the backup data](#encrypt-the-backup-data)
- [Restore TiDB cluster snapshots](#restore-tidb-cluster-snapshots)
- [Restore a database](#restore-a-database)
- [Restore a table](#restore-a-table)
- [Restore multiple tables with table filter](#restore-multiple-tables-with-table-filter)
- [Restore encrypted snapshots](#restore-encrypted-snapshots)

For more information about snapshot backup and restore, refer to:

> - [Back up and Restore TiDB Snapshots Guide](/br/br-snapshot-guide.md)
> - [TiDB Back up and Restore Use Cases](/br/backup-and-restore-use-cases.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Snapshot Backup and Restore Guide](/br/br-snapshot-guide.md)
- [Backup and Restore Use Cases](/br/backup-and-restore-use-cases.md)
```

## Back up TiDB cluster snapshots

You can back up the latest or specified snapshot of the TiDB cluster using the `br backup full` command. For more information about the command, run the `br backup full --help` command.

```shell
br backup full \
    --pd "${PD_IP}:2379" \
    --backupts '2022-09-08 13:30:00' \
    --storage "s3://${backup_collection_addr}/snapshot-${date}?access_key=${access_key}&secret_access_key=${secret_access_key}" \
    --ratelimit 128 \
    --log-file backupfull.log
```

In the preceding command:

> - `--backupts`: The physical time of the snapshot. The format can be [TSO](/glossary.md#tso) or timestamp, such as `400036290571534337` or `2018-05-11 01:42:23`. If the data of this snapshot is garbage collected, the `br backup` command returns an error and 'br' exits. If you leave this parameter unspecified, `br` picks the snapshot corresponding to the backup start time.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `--backupts`: The time point of the snapshot. The format can be [TSO](/glossary.md#tso) or timestamp, such as `400036290571534337` or `2018-05-11 01:42:23`. If the data of this snapshot is garbage collected, the `br backup` command returns an error and 'br' exits. If you leave this parameter unspecified, `br` picks the snapshot corresponding to the backup start time.
```

> - `--backupts`: The physical time of the snapshot. The format can be [TSO](/glossary.md#tso) or timestamp, such as `400036290571534337` or `2018-05-11 01:42:23`. If the data of this snapshot is processed by Garbage Collection (GC), the `br backup` command will exit with an error. If you leave this parameter unspecified, `br` picks the snapshot corresponding to the backup start time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `--backupts`: The physical time of the snapshot. The format can be [TSO](/glossary.md#tso) or timestamp, such as `400036290571534337` or `2018-05-11 01:42:23`. If the data of this snapshot is garbage collected, the `br backup` command returns an error and 'br' exits. If you leave this parameter unspecified, `br` picks the snapshot corresponding to the backup start time.
```

> - `--ratelimit`: The maximum speed **per TiKV** performing backup tasks. The unit is MiB/s

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `--ratelimit`: The maximum speed **per TiKV** performing backup tasks. The unit is in MiB/s.
```

- `--log-file`: The target file where `br` log is written.

During backup, a progress bar is displayed in the terminal, as shown below. When the progress bar advances to 100%, the backup is complete.

```shell
Full Backup <---------/................................................> 17.12%.
```

## Back up a database or a table

The `br` command-line tool supports backing up partial data of a specified database or table from a cluster snapshot or incremental data backup. This feature allows you to filter out unwanted data from snapshot backup and incremental data backup, and back up only business-critical data.

### Back up a database

To back up a database in a cluster, run the `br backup db` command.

> The following backs up the `test` database to Amazon S3:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example backs up the `test` database to Amazon S3:
```

```shell
br backup db \
    --pd "${PD_IP}:2379" \
    --db test \
    --storage "s3://${backup_collection_addr}/snapshot-${date}?access_key=${access_key}&secret_access_key=${secret_access_key}" \
    --ratelimit 128 \
    --log-file backuptable.log
```

In the preceding command, `--db` specifies the database name, and other parameters are the same as those in [Back up TiDB cluster snapshots](#back-up-tidb-cluster-snapshots).

### Back up a table

To back up a table in a cluster, run the `br backup table` command.

> The following backs up the `test.usertable` table to Amazon S3:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example backs up the `test.usertable` table to Amazon S3:
```

```shell
br backup table \
    --pd "${PD_IP}:2379" \
    --db test \
    --table usertable \
    --storage "s3://${backup_collection_addr}/snapshot-${date}?access_key=${access_key}&secret_access_key=${secret_access_key}" \
    --ratelimit 128 \
    --log-file backuptable.log
```

In the preceding command, `--db` and `--table` specify the database name and table name respectively, and other parameters are the same as those in [Back up TiDB cluster snapshots](#back-up-tidb-cluster-snapshots).

### Back up multiple tables with table filter

To back up multiple tables with more criteria, run the `br backup full` command and specify the [table filters](/table-filter.md) with `--filter` or `-f`.

> The following backs up tables that match the `db*.tbl*` filter rule to Amazon S3:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example backs up tables that match the `db*.tbl*` filter rule to Amazon S3:
```

- `--crypter.key-file`: The key file. You can directly pass in the file path where the key is stored as a parameter without passing in the `crypter.key`.

The following is an example:

```shell
br backup full\
    --pd ${PD_IP}:2379 \
    --storage "s3://${backup_collection_addr}/snapshot-${date}?access_key=${access_key}&secret_access_key=${secret_access_key}" \
    --crypter.method aes128-ctr \
    --crypter.key 0123456789abcdef0123456789abcdef
```

> **Note:**
>
> - If the key is lost, the backup data cannot be restored to the cluster.
> - The encryption feature needs to be used on `br` and TiDB clusters v5.3.0 or later versions. The encrypted backup data cannot be restored on clusters earlier than v5.3.0.

## Restore TiDB cluster snapshots

You can restore a TiDB cluster snapshot by running the `br restore full` command.

```shell
br restore full \
    --pd "${PD_IP}:2379" \
    --storage "s3://${backup_collection_addr}/snapshot-${date}?access_key=${access_key}&secret_access_key=${secret_access_key}" \
    --ratelimit 128 \
    --log-file restorefull.log
```

In the preceding command:

> - `--ratelimit`: The maximum speed **per TiKV** performing backup tasks. The unit is MiB/s

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `--ratelimit`: The maximum speed **per TiKV** performing backup tasks. The unit is in MiB/s.
```

### Restore a table

To restore a single table to a cluster, run the `br restore table` command.

The following example restores the `test.usertable` table from Amazon S3 to the target cluster:

```shell
br restore table \
    --pd "${PD_IP}:2379" \
    --db "test" \
    --table "usertable" \
    --ratelimit 128 \
    --storage "s3://${backup_collection_addr}/snapshot-${date}?access_key=${access_key}&secret_access_key=${secret_access_key}" \
    --log-file restore_table.log
```

In the preceding command, `--table` specifies the name of the table to be restored, and other parameters are the same as those in [Restore a database](#restore-a-database).

### Restore multiple tables with table filter

To restore multiple tables with more complex filter rules, run the `br restore full` command and specify the [table filters](/table-filter.md) with `--filter` or `-f`.

> The following restores tables that match the `db*.tbl*` filter rule from Amazon S3 to the target cluster:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example restores tables that match the `db*.tbl*` filter rule from Amazon S3 to the target cluster:
```
